Attached to this video, you find a new project and this is now not a nodejs
project, instead
this is now a reactjs
project. Reactjs
is a frontend javascript framework,
it runs in the browser and it allows you to create such a single page application which I mentioned
in the last course module.
You can simply download the attached project, extract it into a new folder and then navigate into that
folder in a terminal or simply open that folder in an IDE like visual studio code and then
inside of that extracted project, run npm install to install all the dependencies of that project.
Now I mentioned that this is not a nodejs
project,
why do we need to run npm install then?
Because it's pretty common that we manage any dependencies in javascript projects even for browser side
projects with npm, with the node package manager.
The packages I'm installing here are only packages that are getting used in the browser
though, there are no node express or anything like that packages beneath them.
Indeed if you have a look at the package.json file, you'll only find react related packages here
which do run in the browser. So don't be confused by the fact that we're using npm, these packages here
still only run in the browser and we're just using npm to install these packages because in modern front
end development, you have very complex setups, you have very complex package dependencies and using a
package manager like npm can speed that up.
Now once you ran all of that, you can run npm start to start a development server which is now actually
a nodejs
server serving your application but it's not related to the node server
we will build,
it's not related to our backend, this is only a dummy development server which simply serves the build
version of our frontend application, so it serves a simple html file
which you can actually see in the public folder, this one which does not have a lot of content which is
what I mentioned earlier or in the last module actually that single page applications have very trivial
html files but we have some hooks here which are used by the react application which is built in
the source folder,
there is the source code and that will be mounted onto these hooks here automatically in the browser which
leads to an application like this.
You will see an error by default when you first start this up, we'll fix the error throughout the module and there,
you will see this interface and this interface is now fully rendered through reactjs
.
If you inspect the source code, so if you view the page source, you will find the html page
I just showed you with these hooks and then a couple of script imports at the bottom and if you inspect
the dom though, you will see way more
html elements and these are all rendered dynamically by react, so by the browser side javascript framework
and if you want to learn more about react, I get a whole course on that of course
so check that out.
We'll not write react code here,
almost all the code we'll work with is already prepared by me,
we'll just have to tweak some things as we create our rest API
but this is the frontend we'll use together with our rest API
and the idea of course is that you get a feeling for how frontend and backend,
so the react app and the rest API are decoupled and can still work together now.
So this is the project we'll work with,
it's a very simple social network blog messaging like application,
we can have our users status which you can update here,
we can create new posts here, we can later also edit and delete posts and we'll later also add
authentication.
Right now nothing is working because I got no backend attached,
this is also the reason why we have an error message right at the start but we will get rid of that throughout
this module of course.
So this is the frontend and this is now the frontend I want to connect to my backend. So let's now see
which kind of restful API endpoints this frontend could need before we then start implementing them
step by step.